# deep-learning
phishing website detection
Phishing is a fraudulent technique that uses social and technological tricks to steal customer identification and financial credentials. Social media systems use spoofed e-mails from legitimate companies and agencies to enable users to use fake websites to divulge financial details like usernames and passwords [1]. Hackers install malicious software on computers to steal credentials, often using systems to intercept username and passwords of consumers’ online accounts. Phishers use multiple methods, including email, Uniform Resource Locators (URL), instant messages, forum postings, telephone calls, and text messages to steal user information. The structure of phishing content is similar to the original content and trick users to access the content in order to obtain their sensitive data. The primary objective of phishing is to gain certain personal information for financial gain or use of identity theft. Phishing attacks are causing severe economic damage around the world. Moreover, Most phishing attacks target financial/payment institutions and webmail, according to the Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG) latest Phishing pattern studies [1].

In order to receive confidential data, criminals develop unauthorized replicas of a real website and email, typically from a financial institution or other organization dealing with financial data [2–4]. This e-mail is rendered using a legitimate company’s logos and slogans. The design and structure of HTML allow copying of images or an entire website [5]. Also, it is one of the factors for the rapid growth of Internet as a communication medium, and enables the misuse of brands, trademarks and other company identifiers that customers rely on as authentication mechanisms [6–8]. To trap users, Phisher sends "spooled" mails to as many people as possible. When these e-mails are opened, the customers tend to be diverted from the legitimate entity to a spoofed website.

There is a significant chance of exploitation of user information. For these reasons, phishing in modern society is highly urgent, challenging, and overly critical [9, 10]. There have been several recent studies against phishing based on the characteristics of a domain, such as website URLs, website content, incorporating both the website URLs and content, the source code of the website and the screenshot of the website [11]. However, there is a lack of useful anti-phishing tools to detect malicious URL in an organization to protect its users. In the event of malicious code being implanted on the website, hackers may steal user information and install malware, which poses a serious risk to cybersecurity and user privacy. Malicious URLs on the Internet can be easily identified by analyzing it through Machine Learning (ML) technique [12, 13]. The conventional URL detection approach is based on a blacklist (set of malicious URLs) obtained by user reports or manual opinions. On the one hand, the blacklist is used to verify an URL and on the other hand the URL in the blacklist is updated, frequently. However, the numbers of malicious URLs not on the blacklist are increasing significantly. For instance, cybercriminals can use a Domain Generation Algorithm (DGA) to circumvent the blacklist by creating new malicious URLs. Thus, an exhaustive blacklist of malicious URLs [14, 15] is almost impossible to identify the malicious URLs. Thusnew malicious URLs cannot be identified with the existing approaches. Researchers suggested methods based on the learning of computer to identify malicious URLs to resolve the limitations of the system based on the blacklist [16–18]. Malicious URL detection is considered a binary classification task with two-class predictions: malicious and benign. The training of the ML method consists of finding the best mapping between the d-dimensional vector space and the output variable [19–21]. This strategy has a strong generalization capacity to find unknown malicious URLs compared to the blacklist approach.

Recurrent Neural Network (RNN)—Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) is one of the ML techniques that presents a solution for the complex real—time problems [22]. LSTM allow RNN to store inputs for a larger period [23]. It is similar to the concept of storage in computer. In addition, each feature will be processed according to the uniform distribution [24]. The combination of RNN and LSTM enables to extract a lot of information from a minimum set of data. Therefore, it supports phishing detection system to identify a malicious site in a shorter duration.

In comparison to most previous approaches, researchers focus on identifying malicious URLs from the massive set of URLs. Therefore, the study proposes Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) based URL detection approach. The objectives of the study are as follows:

To develop a novel approach to detect malicious URL and alert users.
To apply ML techniques in the proposed approach in order to analyze the real time URLs and produce effective results.
To implement the concept of RNN, which is a familiar ML technique that has the capability to handle huge amount of data.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section 1 introduces the concept of malicious URL and objective of the study. The background of the study and related literature in detecting URL is discussed in section 2. Section 3 presents the methodology of the research. Results and discussion are presented in section 4. Finally, section 5 concludes the study with its future direction.
